{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This is a NEURON version of the CA3 pyramidal cell model of Traub et al. 1991 (J. Neurophysiol. 66(2): 635-650).\
\
Need to compile the .mod files to create a special file containing the associated mechanisms. For this purpose, use nrnivmodl. See NEURON documentation for more details.\
\
Executing the shell script nrnenv.sh will set up paths and run special. It will also setup the NRNBASE variable to its desired value.\
\
After executing nrnenv.sh, use \
\
load_file(\'93any_hocfile.hoc\'94) \
\
to run any_hocfile.hoc at the prompt. \
\
To compare the steady-state values of the channels in the model with the published values use:\
\
Na_steadystate.hoc (outputs m_inf, tau_m, h_inf, tau_h)\
Ca_steadystate.hoc (outputs s_inf, tau_s, r_inf, tau_r)\
Kdr_steadystate.hoc (outputs n_inf, tau_n)\
Ka_steadystate.hoc (outputs a_inf, tau_a, b_inf, tau_b)\
Kahp_steadystate.hoc (outputs q_inf, tau_q)\
Kc_steadystate.hoc (outputs c_inf, tau_c)\
gKc_steadystate.hoc (outputs gKc for different internal calcium concentrations from 0 to 300 at a membrane potential of 60 mV above rest, when the activation variable c is equal to 1)\
\
This will generate text files (in the subdirectory steady_state) that can be imported in Matlab and compared with published values using the two m-files located in the same directory (traub_pr_gKc.m and traub_pr_rates.m).\
\
To construct the model use:\
\
traub.hoc: this file will construct the standard Traub model\
traub_fig4.hoc: this file will construct the model used in Fig. 4 which contains only one apical and one basal dendritic compartment with slightly different conductances  that the standard model.\
traub_currinj.hoc: will generate ascii files in the data subdirectory corresponding to the membrane potential trajectory for current injection in the soma.\
\
In addition, steady_state subdirectory contains one m-file, convert_current.m, which will convert the current values from the Traub model (nA in soma) to the Pinsky-Rinzel model (uA/cm^2, in soma) following the prescriptions of the legend of fig. 6 in the Pinsky-Rinzel paper.  }